# What is CiviEvent?

CiviEvent provides a set of tools for running events. These tools make
you more effective as an event organiser and reduce the amount of
administration require.

CiviCRM helps you manage both simple and complicated registration
processes. Some key features include:

-   self-registration for participants, including online credit card
    payments
-   tracking sign-ups, cancellations, and attendance
-   promotion of your events on your website
-   streamline event set-up for similar, recurring events with event
    templates and event copy functionality
-   participant check in on-site at the event from any computer with an
    internet connection

## Scenario: Youth leadership workshop

A community arts group, Arts in Action, conducts leadership workshops
for people under age 25 throughout the year. Their goals include
attracting new youth to attend their workshops and enlisting past
attendees to volunteer and teach. Youth from local schools and theater
groups are invited to attend, and there are youth speakers and
volunteers, as well as other speakers for the training workshops.

The Arts in Action communications staff use CiviEvent to efficiently
manage each workshop from the beginning of its planning to the end of
its evaluation. First, a staff member creates an event page that
includes an online registration form. Because this is a regular event, a
staff member has previously created an event template, which fills in
much of the information needed in the event set-up process. There is a
flat fee for registration, with additional fees for optional workshops;
attendees can select what they are registering for and pay for it
online. The registration form also gathers information about
participants' food and lodging preferences using a CiviCRM feature
called a profile.

A targeted list of youth and groups is drawn from existing contacts, and
staff send personalised invitations using CiviMail (also based on a
template, so that information can be reused from one event to the next).
The invitation includes a direct link to the event page so that
participants can arrive at the online registration with a single
click. The event is also announced publicly by posting it on the Arts in
Action website, and the "Tell-a-friend" function is enabled so that the
information can easily be spread through people's networks.

A staff person is designated to manage the process by which participants
register themselves, periodically checking to make sure that payments
are being made, managing the wait list when participant sign-ups exceed
the maximum number, and answering any questions.

On the day of the event, organisers can check in each attendee on-site
to keep track in real time of who is attending and whether there are any
no-shows. Participants with outstanding fees can also be asked to pay at
this time. The database is updated immediately, freeing up spaces for
those on the wait list and recording payments.

After each workshop, Arts in Action staff evaluate the success of the
event and use CiviEvent to quickly generate reports such as the number
of attendees, total event fees paid, and total amount still due. The
event and mail templates can be updated if necessary and saved for the
next event.

## Some key concepts

The chapters in this section take you through everything you need to
know in order to get the most from CiviEvent. Below are a few concepts
you might find helpful for you before you begin to set up your event.
You will put these concepts into practical use when following the
step-by-step tasks in the next chapters of this section.

### Events, participants and contacts

First lets explain some basic concepts. CiviCRM allows you to create one
or more **events** that your **contacts** can participate in. When a
contact participates in an event, they are called a **participant**.

### Event types

CiviCRM allows you to define different types of events, such as
conferences, meetings and fundraisers. Which event types to create is
entirely up to you, according to the needs of your organization.

Event types come in handy if you have different requirements for types
of events. For example, you can create custom fields to store and
display additional data about an event by its event type. See the
chapter *Custom data on events* in this section for more information
about this. They are also useful for categorizing and segmenting events
and attendees, for example, you could easily find all contacts that have
come to one of your trainings or attended one of your fundraising events.


### Participant roles

Every contact that participates in an event is assigned a participant
role. The most common is probably attendee. Others include volunteer or
speaker.  Participant roles are fully customizable to match the types of
events your organization conducts. This allows you to segment
participants into meaningful categories based on their involvement in
the event, for example for sending an email to volunteers only or
generating a list of past table captains for fundraisers. You can also
create custom fields that apply only to specific roles, for example, to
collect information about availability from volunteers only.

### Participant statuses

Participant statuses (for example, registered, wait-listed, attended or
cancelled) are used to track what stage the contact is at in their
'event journey'. Participant statuses are fully customizable to match
the way your organization does event registration. This allows you to
segment participants into meaningful categories based on their behavior
with respect to the event, for the purpose of things like generating
sign-in sheets, tracking how many people are likely to come to an event,
and tailoring email communications to registrants.

## Other parts of CiviCRM that work with CiviEvent

CiviEvent is designed to work together with other parts of CiviCRM.  For
example, you can promote the event to a targeted list and communicate
with event participants via email before and after the event using
CiviMail (see the *Email* section, particularly the [Set-up](../email/set-up.md) and
[Scheduled Reminders](../email/scheduled-reminders.md) chapters, for more information). CiviEvent works
with CiviContribute to allow you to accept event payments online. To do
this, you must enable CiviContribute and set up a payment processor; see
the *Contributions* section for more information.
