# Glossary

## Accidental Techie

Someone who has inherited the role of **IT** technical support but whose
primary role maybe something else; often has little or no formal IT
training (which is not always a bad thing!).

## Accordion

A **javascript**-based effect on a web page that allows additional
content to be revealed or hidden (often referred to as collapsed or
uncollapsed) without the user leaving the web page.

## ACL (Access Control List)

ACLs define **permissions** for a group of **contacts** to perform an
operation (e.g. edit, view, delete) on a set of data or a type of
record. For example, you could set up a group called "Administrators"
that allows people to view and edit all contact records, and a group
called "Volunteers" that can view contact records but not edit them.

## Activities

An activity in **CiviCRM** is a record of any scheduled or completed
interaction with one or more **contacts**. Examples include meetings,
phone calls, emails, event attendances and contributions. You can define
additional types of activities as needed.

## Admin / Administrator

The person or persons that maintain a **server** or web-based software
like **CiviCRM**. Administration includes maintenance, configuration,
**backup**, security, creating and deleting user accounts and so on. 

## AGM (Annual General Meeting)

An AGM is a meeting held every year by an organisation to inform its
members of previous and future activities. Certain types of
organisations are required by law to hold an AGM.

## AGPL (Affero General Public License)

A license for **open source software**. **CiviCRM** uses the [AGPL
version 3.0 license](http://www.affero.org/oagpl.html), which gives you
the right to do with the **software** as you like and guarantees that
the **source code** will always protect your rights in this way. 

## Alpha Version

A **software** version that contains very new **source code** with new
functionality and bug fixes. An alpha version is released for testing
purposes, and for people who want to follow its development, but it is
not considered to be anywhere near ready for general release or use.

## Apache

The most popular web **server software**. Apache is free and **open
source** (see also **FLOSS**).

## API (Application Programming Interface)

An interface employed by a **software** application to enable
interaction between itself and other software. 

## Backup

Protecting your data by regularly making copies and storing them
independently of the original files so they can be restored if
necessary.

## Bandwidth

The speed at which you can transfer information through a network or
internet connection. If a connection can transfer a lot of information
it is said to be "high bandwidth" or "high speed."

## Beta Version

A **software** version that is in good condition but still needs testing
to make sure it functions as intended before general release. Testing
beta versions is a helpful way to participate in the **CiviCRM**
community.

## Blog

Short for web-log. A website which is regularly updated with news and
views from one or more individuals.

## Bug

An error that prevents **software** from behaving as the user would
expect.

## Bug Reporting / Bug Fixing

The process of reporting **bugs** to the **software** **developer**(s),
and then fixing the bugs so the software operates as intended.

## Bug Tracker

An official repository for recording **bugs**. The **CiviCRM** bug
trackers can be found here:
[https://lab.civicrm.org/](http://lab.civicrm.org) with the main core
tracker at [https://lab.civicrm.org/dev/core/issues](https://lab.civicrm.org/dev/core/issues)

## Cache

A recent copy of frequently used data that can be quickly and easily
accessed. This is especially useful if the data is complicated or takes
a large effort to generate. The disadvantage of caching is that data can
become out of date, but this normally isn't a problem. Even caching data
for 5 minutes might be useful in certain circumstances. If a page is
accessed 1,000 times in 5 minutes, having a cached version means the
data will only need to be generated once.

A web cache holds copies of recently visited web page files. Sometimes a
user may need to clear their web cache in order to see updated
information on a web page.

## Canvassing

Is the systematic initiation of direct contact with a target group of
individuals commonly used during political campaigns. A campaign team
(and during elections a candidate) will knock on doors of private
residences within a particular geographic area, engaging in face-to-face
personal interaction with voters. Canvassing may also be performed by
telephone, where it is referred to as telephone canvassing.

## Captcha

A spam prevention tool. See **reCaptcha**. 

## CiviCase

The case management **component** of **CiviCRM**. CiviCase provides
service organisations with tools for structuring, scheduling and
recording case activities. 

## CiviContribute

CiviContribute is an online fundraising and donor management
**component** which enables you to track and manage contributions to
your organisation.

## CiviCRM

What this whole manual is about! **CiviCRM** is web-based, **open source
software** that allows you to record and manage information about your
various **constituents** including volunteers, activists, donors,
employees, **clients**, vendors, etc.

## CiviDog

See **Scout**.

## CiviEngage

CiviEngage is a Drupal module that enhances CiviCRM's core functions for
non-profits focused on community organizing groups and civic engagement
work. CiviEngage provides a package of custom fields, reports and
features to track the history of engagement, involvement, and activities
of constituents over time. This package also integrates Campaigns and
Surveys to provide WalkLists and PhoneBank Lists.

## CiviEvent

CiviEvent provides integrated online event registration and management
for paid and free events.

## CiviMail

CiviMail is a mass-mailing **component** which allows you to engage
**constituents** with personalised email blasts and newsletters.

## CiviPledge

CiviPledge is a **component** that allows the flexibility to create various
types of fundraisers. Allows to individuals to donate daily, weekly,
monthly or yearly.

## Client

A term used sometimes instead of **constituent** or **contact**, more
often in a context involving a financial transaction.

Client is also a term for a system (computer) or application that
accesses a remote computer such as a web **server** to receive
information; examples include a personal computer that is connected to
the internet, or an email application that downloads email from a
server. 

## Closed Software

Software that does not allow users to access its **source code**, as
opposed to **open source software**. See also **proprietary software**.

## CMS (Content Management System)

An application used to create, edit, manage, search and publish various
kinds of digital content (text and other media such as images and
videos). Web-based CMS allow organisations to add and manage content on
their website without requiring advanced technical skills. Every instance of **CiviCRM**
must be integrated with a CMS (currently **WordPress**, **Drupal**, **Backdrop** or
**Joomla!**) which helps to facilitate **client** interaction.

## Component

A part of a **CMS** or other application that can be enabled or
disabled, according to the needs of the user. Examples include
**CiviEvent** or **CiviCase**. See also **module**.

## Community Advisory Group

A representative group of people from the **CiviCRM** community who work
with the CiviCRM team on project development.

## Cookie

A file stored on your computer and used by a website to identify you on
return visits. Some websites cannot be accessed unless you allow your
computer to accept and store cookies.

## Constituent

A constituency is usually defined as a group of people bound by shared
identity, goals, or loyalty. In **CiviCRM**, "constituents" is used to a
describe all supporters, current or potential, of a given organisation.
See also **contact** and **client**.

## Contact

In **CiviCRM** a contact is either an individual, an organisation or a
household about whom information is stored in the database. See also
**constituent** and **client**.

## Contact Summary Screen

A page that displays at a glance all the data about an individual,
organisation or household that is stored in the **CiviCRM** database.

## Core Code

The **source code** that constitutes the official code of **CiviCRM**.
Also called core.

## Core Data Field

A field that is included in a record structure "out-of-the-box". For
example, the **CiviCRM** **contact** record includes First Name as a
core field.

## Core Team

The people most closely involved with **CiviCRM** development.

## CRM

Acronym for Contact (or Constituent, Customer or Client) Relationship
Management. CRM (or eCRM) **software** was originally developed from a
sales perspective, to help companies track and organise their
interactions with current and potential customers. **CiviCRM** is
oriented specifically toward the needs of **non-profits**, advocacy and
non-governmental organisations, so the term "customer" is replaced with
"**constituent**". Outside the USA it is often referred to as Contact
Relationship Management. 

## Cron

Cron is the time-based job scheduler in Unix-like computer operating
systems. Cron enables users to schedule jobs (commands or shell scripts)
to run periodically at certain times or dates. It is commonly used to
automate system maintenance or administration. Cron is used to
in **CiviCRM** to trigger specific tasks, such as sending membership
renewal reminders or processing ongoing payments, or to run all jobs
enabled under the Scheduled Jobs page at their configured frequency.

## CRUD

Create, Read, Update and Delete: the basic functions performed on
databases.

## CSS (Cascading Style Sheets)

A way to control the style of a website by defining design and layout
elements in a single file which is linked to all files in a website and
applies the style across the site. An element, such as the formatting of
a heading or a background colour, can be changed once in the CSS file to
effect a change on all pages of the site. 

## CSV (Comma Separated Values)

A simple format for a spreadsheet. CSV files are text files where each
cell is separated by a comma, and each row is separated with a return.
This very simple format is understandable by many different programmes.


## Custom Data Field

A field that is added to the data structure of a **CiviCRM** record by
your organisation. Custom data fields extend the information that can be
stored in that type of record. For example, your organisation might need
a custom field to record each **contacts**' professional qualifications,
or the food preferences of event participants. 

## Dashboard

A user's homepage, which displays when the user logs in to **CiviCRM**
and which can be personalised with **dashlets**. 

## Dashlet

A report on some data in the **CiviCRM** database, configured to appear
on a user's **dashboard**. For example, monthly figures in graph and/or
numerical form, appointments for the day, or a list of new memberships.

## Data Centralisation

Storing all your data in one place.

## Database

Is a collection of information that is organized so that it can easily
be accessed, managed, and updated. In one view, databases can be
classified according to types of content: bibliographic, full-text,
numeric, and images.

## Demo Site

A website that allows you to test and explore the functionality of a 
piece of software. **CiviCRM** maintains three demos sites: one 
integrated with **Drupal**, one integrated with **Joomla!** and one 
integrated with **WordPress**. 

## Dedupe

Refers to the task of finding and merging multiple entries for one
**contact**.

## Developer

Someone who develops **software**.

## Domain

See **DNS**.

## Donor

Someone who makes a donation, i.e. voluntarily gives money to an
organisation.

## DNS (Domain Name System)

The Domain Name System (DNS) converts domain names, which are made up of
easy-to-remember combinations of letters (example.com), to IP addresses
(123.456.123.234) which are hard-to-remember strings of numbers. Every
computer on the internet has an unique address (a little bit like an
area code + telephone number).

## Drupal

An open source **CMS** that integrates with **CiviCRM** to provide a
user-interface and additional website functionality
([http://drupal.org](http://drupal.org/)).

## Encryption

A way of disguising data when it is being transferred from one computer
to another so that it is unreadable by any other computer that it may
pass through on the way.

## Environment

The specific hardware and operating system on which you are running your
**software**. 

## Event Listing Feed

A **RSS feed** containing the list of events defined in **CiviEvent**.

## Firefox

A popular free and **open source** web browser, developed by the Mozilla
Foundation ([http://www.mozilla.org](http://www.mozilla.org))

## FLOSS (Free/Libre Open Source Software)

**Software** that is licensed so as to guarantee the essential freedoms
of users to its **source code** and reuse. A combination of "**free
software**" and "**open source software**", with "libre" added in to
emphasise that software freedom is essentially a matter of rights, not
price.

## FOSS

Free and Open Source Software - see **FLOSS**.

## Forum

A web-based online discussion tool (see
[http://forum.civicrm.org/](http://forum.civicrm.org/)).

## Free Software

**Software** that is licensed so that you can use and distribute it
without restriction. **CiviCRM** is free software. See also **FLOSS**. 

## FTP (File Transfer Protocol)

The FTP protocol is used for file transfers from one computer to another
over the internet. Many people use it for downloads, and it can also be
used to upload files to web **servers**. A popular free and **open
source** FTP **client** for Windows is FileZilla. There are also
web-based FTP clients that you can use with a normal web browser like
Firefox.

## Functionality

The set of tasks that a piece of **software** can perform.

## Geocoding

The process of finding associated geographic coordinates (often
expressed as latitude and longitude) from other geographic data, such as
street addresses, or zip codes (postal codes).

## GUI (Graphical User Interface)

User interface offering windows, icons, mouse control, multiple fonts,
and so on - the normal way for non-programmers to communicate with their
computers. The alternative to a GUI is a command line interface with
text only.

## Hook

Hooks are a common way to extend systems and a powerful way to extend
CiviCRM's functionality, incorporate additional business logic, and even
integrate CiviCRM with external systems.

## Household

Is a family or group of people who share a physical location.

## Hosting Service

A service (usually commercial) that provides **server** space for your
website. Hosting services also can provide physical space to put your
own server in so that it is connected to the internet.

## ICT

Acronym for Information and Communication Technology. 

## Internationalisation: i18n

The process of making **software** ready for adoption in different
countries and different cultures, without the need to modify it
technically. This is done by the **developer** (software engineer) when
writing the software. See also **Localisation**. 

## Internet Service Provider (ISP)

A business that provides services such as internet access, email and
website hosting. 

## Intranet

A network of computers that are connected within a home or office but
not accessible from outside the local network. 

## IT

Acronym for Information Technology.

## JavaSacript

A scripting language primarily used in web pages to display dynamic
content. 

## Joomla!

A **CMS** that can integrate with **CiviCRM** to provide a user
interface and additional website functionality
([http://www.joomla.org](http://www.joomla.org/)). 

## LAMP

Is an acronym for a solution stack of free, open source software,
originally coined from the first letters of Linux (operating system),
Apache HTTP Server, MySQL (database software) andPerl/PHP/Python,
principal components to build a viable general purpose web server.

## Linux

A type of operating system (other common operating systems are Windows
and Mac OS). Linux has been popular as a web **server** for a long time
and is now gaining popularity on personal laptops and desktop computers.
Linux is **free software** and **open source**.

## Local Computer

A computer that runs **CiviCRM** but is not publicly available via the
internet. This could be your personal or home computer, or it can be in
your office. It can also be called a **client** computer in the context
of receiving information from a **server**

## Localisation: L10n

The process of translating a product into different languages or
adapting a language for a specific country or region. This is done by
translators with no need for technical wizardry.

## Mail Server

A computer that transfers email from one computer to another.

## Mapping Provider

A service provider that allows displaying contact locations on maps -
Google Maps or Yahoo Maps in **CiviCRM**.

## Module

A part of a system, also called a **component**. **CiviCRM** includes a
number of modules, each of which adds functionality to the basic contact
management features. For example, the **CiviEvent** module provides
event management functionality. Organisations using CiviCRM can turn
modules on or off, according to their needs.

## MySQL

A popular database engine. **CiviCRM** uses MySQL to hold its data.
MySQL is **free software**. ([http://mysql.com](http://mysql.com))

## NGO (Non-Governmental Organisation)

A legally constituted non-business organisation with no participation or
representation from government. In the United States, this type of
organisation is more often referred to as a **Non-profit**. They may be
also called civil society organisations or not-for-profits.

## Non-Profit

See **NGO**

## Online Contribution Page

A function of **CiviCRM** which allows the creation of a page on the
website where visitors can make online donations using credit cards.

## Open ID

A convenient free system to use a single digital identity across the
internet.

## Open Source Software

**Software** with **source code** that is publicly available, as opposed
to **proprietary software**; see also **FLOSS**. Open source software is
based on the philosophy that sharing and collaborating on code leads to
better software and greater benefit for everyone.

## Payment Instrument

Medium or method that is used for online payments.

## Payment Processor

A company (usually a third party) appointed by a merchant to handle
credit card transactions for merchant banks. A payment processor is
required to handle online transactions through a system such as
**CiviCRM**. 

## Permissions

Allow you to limit access for different users to different parts of the
system.

## Personal Campaign Pages

A feature of **CiviCRM** that can be enable to allow **constituents** to
create their own fundraising pages.

## PHP

The programming language in which the majority of **CiviCRM** is
written.

## Ping

Sending and receiving small amounts of data to and from a server; often
used to measure the response time across the network.

## Point Person

Someone given the responsibility to keep their eye on a certain issue.

## PhoneBank List

A list created using CiviReport to make it easy for volunteers to call
constituents en masse. This is often done to invite them to vote,
request that they volunteer, take action, or donate.

## Premium

A gift that can be offered to contributor in exchange for donation.
**CiviCRM** allows offering premiums as a part of the donation gathering
process.

## Price Sets

A way of storing and re-using complicated price structures for events.
For example, you can charge for different elements of an event.

## Primary Location

The information that a **constitutent** wants to be used as their main
point of contact for mailings etc.

## Profiles

A set of fields used for collecting, modifying, and sharing data. See [Profles](../organising-your-data/profiles.md) for more information.

## Proprietary software

Also called **closed software** or closed source software. **Software**
licensed so that you cannot access the **source code** and modify it
without first coming to an agreement with the authors. See also **open
source software**.

## Protocol

An agreed-upon method of doing something. HTTP and SMTP are two
examples, one being an agreement on how to transfer website data across
the web, the other an agreement on how email will be transferred across
the web. 

## Radio Button

An element of a web-based application user interface that allows the
user to choose only one of a predefined set of options. Usually
indicated by a white circle that can be filled with a click.

## reCAPTCHA

A common tool for testing whether a user is a human or a computer, used
to prevent spam.

## Requirements

The things that you require a particular **software** application to do.

## Rich Text Editor

A text editor that allows you to add formatting, such as bold, italic
and underline, to text (as opposed to just plain text).

## Root Domain

The 'raw' **URL** of a website without 'www' or any other **subdomain**.
For example, [http://civicrm.org/](http://civicrm.org/) is the root
domain while [http://www.civicrm.org/](http://www.civicrm.org/) is not.

## RSS (Really Simple Syndication) Feed

RSS feeds are a way to publish frequently updated information, either
for inclusion on a website or to be read by an RSS reader.

## RSVP

"Répondez s'il vous plaît", a French phrase that translates to "please
respond". Commonly used to request confirmation (or declining) of
attendance at an event.

## Script

A script is a short programme that does one specific task. Many web
pages include scripts to manage user interaction, so that the **server**
does not have to send a new page for each change.

## Scout

The **CiviCRM** Book Sprint official dog. Scout likes dog biscuits,
rolling on the ground, eating snow and proof-reading.

## Sendmail

Sendmail is one of the most popular mail transfer agents (MTA) used for
handling email on a **server**. Sendmail is free and **open source
software**.

## Server

1. Software that "serves" content to a **client**. See **Apache**, or
**Mail Server** for two examples. 

2. A computer that is used primarily to serve content. Any computer can
be set up this way, but the term traditionally refers to those that
deliver web content. See also **client** computer. 

## Shared Hosting

A website hosting service, where multiple websites reside on single
**server**.

## Smart Group

A group in **CiviCRM** to which **contacts** are automatically assigned.
Smart groups are created by running and then saving a search. They are
useful for groups that might change frequently, for example "donations
over $1000 in the last month".

## SMTP

Simple Mail Transfer Protocol. A standard or **protocol** used by email
**software** to transfer (send) email.

## Soft Credit

Allows you to credit a **contact** for a donation made by someone, for
example the person who inspired the actual donor to make a donation. See
**Personal Campaign Pages**.

## Software

Applications (also called programs or programmes) that enable specific
functionality on your computer. There are many broad categories of
software such as web browsers, word processors and email **clients**.
Within each category there are many available softwares that perform the
functions you require. For example, Firefox and Internet Explorer are
two commonly-used web browsers.

## Software License

The terms you must accept before using a piece of **software**.

## Source Code

**Software** is created by writing instructions that a computer
understands. These lines of instructions are known as **code** or source
code.

## SSL (Secure Sockets Layer)

One way of making internet communication secure. You can easily see if
you are using SSL by looking at the URL in your browser: if it starts
with https instead of http, your connection is using SSL.

## SSL Certificate

Provided by the server to prove its identity, in the same way that a
person carries a passport or driving license. See also **SSL** (Secure
Sockets Layer).

## Stable Version

A version of **software** that has been tested and is considered to be
ready for general use.

## Token

[Tokens](../common-workflows/tokens-and-mail-merge.md) are used in **CiviCRM** to insert elements such as a
**contact**'s name or a standard greeting into emails being sent from
the system. In an email sent to a group of people, the token
{first.name} will be replaced with actual name of each message
recipient, in the email that each individual receives.

## Upgrade

The process of replacing **software** with a newer **version** of the
same software. An upgrade may fix bugs, improve security, enable the
software to continue to work with upgraded operating systems, or provide
new features and other enhancements.

## URL

Acronym for Unique Resource Locator, sometimes referred to as a
Universal Resource Indicator, or URI. The technical convention that
identifies the location of a resource on a network. The resource might
be a web page, in which case the URL refers to the location of that web
page on the internet, for example
[www.civicrm.org](http://www.civicrm.org) is the URL for **CiviCRM**.

## Use Case

Use case is a central concept in **software** development. A use case is
a story or scenario that documents the experience of performing a
specific task with the application. Generally, a use case should avoid
technical or database-specific language, such as 'fields' or 'record',
and concentrate on real world objects and scenarios in order to
communicate the idea clearly to people who may not be familiar with
technical terms.

## Version

Updates to **software** are released periodically, and these releases
are referred to as a version of the software. There are different types
of version, for example the most recent release of a software which has
been tested and is intended for general use is referred to as the
**stable version**, while a very new untested version is the **alpha
version**.

## VPN (Virtual Private Network)

A method of sharing information between members of an organisation over
encrypted connections.

## Walk List

Is a list created using CiviReport to make it easy for volunteers to go
door-to-door. This is often done for voter engagement.

## Web Application

A **software** application that provides a website with additional
functionality. **CiviCRM** is a web application.

## Webmail

Webmail is email service through a website. The service sends and
receives email messages for users in the usual way, but provides a web
interface for reading and managing messages, as an alternative to
running a mail **client** like Outlook Express or Thunderbird on the
user's computer. For example a popular and free webmail service is
[https://mail.google.com/](https://mail.google.com/)

## Web-Server

A Web server is a computer that is set up with software and networking
capabilities to deliver Web pages on the Internet or an Intranet. Web
servers use programs such asApache or IIS to deliver Web pages over the
http protocol.

## Wiki

A web-based **software** that enables anyone to edit content via a web
browser. Wikipedia is the best known example of a wiki.

## Wildcard

A character that can match an any number and collection of characters,
normally represented by \*. For example, when used in searches, ab\*
finds ab, abba and abracadabra but not fabulous; \*ab\* finds fabulous.

## WordPress

The most popular CMS in use on the internet today, WordPress integrates
as of CiviCRM version 4.1 and WordPress version 3.3.1. Prior to these
versions, CiviCRM didn't work directly with WordPress, although a
Drupal/CiviCRM installation could be installed in parallel on the same
server as WordPress. 

## Work Station

A computer used for working; often in a situation such as an office
where there are other computers that may include **servers**.

## WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get)

An application that provides a visual tool for editing web content, so
that the user can see how the page will look in the browser as they are
editing, instead of working in the HTML **code**. See also **rich text
editor**.
